philosophy of Karl Popper had a big
impact of my life I think today most
people associate Karl Popper with
philosophy of science philosophy of
scientific method but he was also known
in his own time and some stent hated in
his own time for being a critic of
Marxism for being a public philosopher
who rejected communism and not in a
shallow sense not just dealing with the
historical reality of what communist
governments had done but digging into
the philosophical underpinnings of Karl
Marx Hegel etc and showing in a very
meaningful sense that communism was
rotten to the core that it was bad not
only in practice but also in principle
that it wasn't merely a theory that was
poorly implemented in the world but was
a deeply flawed theory to the Kin line
and the book I'm thinking of by Karl
Popper especially here is the poverty of
historicism and a very strange and
awkward title and by contrast I think
today more people probably read karl
popper's books with the uplifting and
catchy title dealing with the nature of
scientific progress scientific thinking
versus pseudoscience cope offer I don't
know we kind of write easy-to-understand
anecdotes about Einstein and how
Einstein theorized about the position of
the moon bending to light the Sun during
an eclipse little anecdotes from the
philosophy of science that he picks up
and makes seem kind of provocative and
profound but that is not the site of
karl popper's work that mattered to me
at all
what really managed me was the critique
that starts by dealing with Plato and
ends by dealing with Karl Marx but Hegel
in between in the fathering of
historicism and I'll always remember the
bookshelf I was standing at the way I
discovered that book was most
straightforward peculiar way to find a
little philosophy I was standing in
front of the bookshelf in the library it
wasn't what I was looking for
that wasn't research I was doing and I
saw the two volumes of the poverty of
historicism sitting on the show
and the title alone even though it is
such a strange title it immediately
seemed clear to me that this would deal
with philosophy of Hegel which does a
great link and I could immediately
imagine even though it's such a strange
title how does it relate to quite a few
different things I've been reading and
researching
in the years leading up to that so I'm
recalling this now without going back
and looking at the book again these
videos are not really about textbook
philosophy they're about the
significance that this console aussi has
had in my own life I can also say I'm
reminded of a pair of filmmakers who
made the intentional decision not to go
back and reread a certain short story
was actually a short story by Edgar
Allan Poe when they decide to make a
film about it the filmmakers would have
a film based on their memories of the
short stories the story that read at
school children rather than be based on
the the source text you know they're
going to make a film based on their
their imperfect memories in effect so in
that same way too I can say that these
videos are really about the aspects of
the flaws that stayed with me and it
mattered to me I'm not presenting this
is a book review and not competing with
Wikipedia to give you a kind of
objective survey of what this philosophy
is or why it matters and in some ways as
I said before I think this is the kind
of reflection that YouTube is a medium
is very well suited to and conversely I
do think it's a bit hollow when people
make some kind of grandiose claim that
philosophy of Aristotle was tremendously
meaningful to them but they seem to be
unable to back that up with any
particulars because the philosophy of
Aristotle actually impacts how you vote
anything about your politics you know
what you're doing whether CLE with your
life now as an adult does it really
change how you think and feel and behave
politically personally or otherwise
years now after after
Aristotle those are the kinds of
reflections I would like to see on
YouTube myself why did the philosophy of
crophopper mean so much to me well I
considered off the bat when I first saw
what Karl Popper had to say about Plato
so was the ancient Greek philosopher
Plato his critique of Plato as criticism
the mr. Fisher Plato it was such a
contrast to all the attempts to make
Plato seem mysterious and impressive and
profound that I've been dealing with in
the classroom in my own life in general
you know there really was a very
different school of thought even on
mainstream television in the old days up
but I saw it in the classroom I saw it
on television I saw it on everywhere I
went in Western culture of taking simple
and down-to-earth things and making them
seem mysterious and impressive where it
seems like the mean purpose in teaching
Plato was not understand what he had to
say or why he said it but was just to
try to dazzle the audience with some
sense that this is overwhelming or
inspiring and of course in many cases
not a large part of Plato's philosophy
is pretty pretty down-to-earth and still
reads off the page in a down-to-earth
way today when I read karl popper's
critique of Plato so for example his
criticism of what Plato has to say about
the nature of justice these were all
questions I had asked myself that I had
asked sort of out loud and looking at my
textbook and the dissent I even asked my
professor and that seemingly nobody had
any good answers to why was it that in
my own classroom
Plato was introduced you know as being
integrally about justice Plato's
Republic as being the question of what
is the meaning of justice and then
absolutely no attention was paid to the
definition of justice that Plato
presents within that book there were all
these really strange contradictions in
sort of how plato was glamorized for a
university student and the reality of
what Plato had to say and how he said it
and the same is true of course when I
was looking at velocity of Hegel there
was this huge gap between the reality of
what he was
what he had to say and even how we was
saying it and the way in which Hegel was
being glorified especially at that time
now you know so this is I was in
university after 1989 1989 those you
don't remember is the fall of the Berlin
Wall and I think for a few decades after
1989 instead of people really admitting
the extent to which Marxism had ended in
failure a lot of energy within academia
was going back into trying to leave
allies Marxism and revaloris philosophy
of Hegel as if to hold on to whatever
they thought was good or redeemable of
lasting value and intellectual legacy of
Marxism despite the fact that the
collapse of Soviet Union wearing such
important questions about how Western
academia had come to this point of
regarding you know Karl Marx and Hegel
of being of such a paramount importance
anyway so now I don't know what's
happened since then I mean I do not have
a sense of you know the further
crumbling of the Marxist edifice of in
academia you know since say the year
2003 but I was in some ways you know in
western academia at a time when they
were failing to face up to how flawed
their own teaching of philosophy had
been especially in terms of of Murph's
and Hegel so if anything I was I was
inside acting in a time when a lot of
professors who had taught Marx in
exactly the same way for decades before
1989 they had adjusted what they were
teaching but they had only made it more
abstract more vague more grandiose
Morgul they were reaching further you
know to try to make Hegel seem
meaningful and important to a new
generation of students and again in
looking at Karl Popper you know so here
in this one book it's one book in two
volumes party of historicism I saw this
down to earth in touch with reality
meaningful critique of Plato it was such
a contrast to the evasive and I think
intentionally misleading nonsense I've
countered that thus far you know in
Plato in at all levels you know terms of
purity articles women really strange in
a fuss Kotori approach of not not
admitting what this texted though and
why people are talking about and then
again in volume two when you're looking
at philosophy of Hegel closet chrome
Marx it just seemed that in Karl Popper
I was looking at somebody who was
willing to acknowledge what the text
said what the author's intention really
was and that was then asking a
meaningful and down-to-earth sense what
does what does this mean in our lives
now you know um wasn't trying to
bedazzle an audience of students wasn't
trying to convince you this was the most
important thing the was the contrat
limit is the most important book of its
century or anything of the kind was
willing to deal with kind of the good in
the better
Karl Popper too many people were sort of
shocked but many people were simply shot
that he dared to criticize socialism
itself communism itself
Marxism itself but one of the very
simple things you would say says it
within that book and he said individuals
he said I'm not debating the vague claim
to help the poor you know the general
ethical claim that communists and
left-wingers make that they want to help
poor people he said the point is we have
to move beyond using that as an excuse
for everything that's wrong with the
philosophy or as an excuse for
everything that's wrong with their
politics and we have to acknowledge that
all kinds of other philosophies
including the Catholic Church have made
this claim or still make this claim that
they help the poor that they care about
the poor that they want to improve the
lives of the poor and downtrodden but
there's just no dotted line connecting
these kinds of claims and you know the
justifications for you know either
specific regimes like Soviet Union or
you know the specific obtuse
reinterpretation of karl marx was
already being reinterpreted in a very
strange way by Lenin then on on and on
by Stennett Stalin and two other other
promised regimes manaphy um and there's
no justification to bend out before for
the core tenets of and beliefs of
Marxism in the first place now the
reality is I was raised in a family and
I was raised in a political and social
context that was so left wing that I was
very much expected to become a socialist
or communist of some kind and if not I
mean you know it's not really true to
say rebelled against that because I grew
up you know after 1989 after the fall of
the Berlin Wall
you know there was this broad awareness
on the left-wing that what they were
doing wasn't working I had to change
they needed new ideas and new directions
but nobody knew what to do with that
impulse so you know it just wasn't cased
at that time when I was in university
I'll say I remember year 2019 99 year
2000 it's not the case that there was a
left-wing establishment responding me
with shock and horror although my own
father was genuinely shocked and
horrified when he saw me reading up on
the sign of just hell how less people
it's just to actually see the books to
see that was reading part of the source
and he gave me his you know decades-old
denunciation of why call poppers a
reactionary and an enemy of the people
or enemy of the working man or whatever
the case might be that was real you know
those were real political cross currents
you know going on around me um you know
one of my own professors I remember he
was a labor union organizer far
left-wing he was actually invited to
take over the leadership of the NDP the
left-wing party in Canada he had been a
lifelong socialist or something like
that but I remember that particular
professor whenever you sit down to talk
to him he was at that time in doing
research on the automotive industry and
labor unions this kind of stuff there
was definitely this sense of all of the
political aspirations and all of the
intellectual pretensions of the
left-wing having been deflated and this
open question of what next but I got to
tell you what Karl Popper
did for me was give me the confidence to
look at the Canon of Western philosophy
and say okay so everyone's asking what
next let's swing cagillion ISM is not it
if I should be going back to Hegel it's
not going to be going back to Plato it's
not going to be going back to immanuel
kant's it's not going to be going back
to Lenin or Stalin or all these other
things at that time it seems
unbelievable now there were people who
called themselves Hegelian feminists
there were people who were making all
these attempts to reinvigorate either
the philosophy of Hegel as a left-wing
political platform or the philosophy of
Marx or both there was all this stuff
going on and reading Karl Popper it gave
me a sense of confidence in my own
sanity because when I read even just
sticking with that example of Plato why
was it that when I read Plato I was
asking all these obvious questions that
seemingly nobody was even allowed to ask
and that none of the academic literature
was answering and then you know beyond
that gave me a sense of confidence in
asking those broader questions you know
what was the future of parisa politics
in Canada or what have you and say it's
not this the future of progressive
politics in Canada was not going to be
going back and making a bunch of excuses
for the political philosophy of the
recent past